---
author: nzge
---

The RPG genre just might be the video game genre to rule them all.

Other genres for the most part occupy a confined set of constraints (some of which have been artificially placed by market trends and what's popular). 

The RPG fantasy is one that appeals in a way to a mass audience. The fantasy of an alternate reality that you can live and breath.

However, the true potential of RPGs is so far from being realized. In execution RPGs is not even 20% of it's maximum potential. The reason is that to create something as immersive as an RPG is probably one of the most labor intensive undertakings in the gaming sphere, I daresay in the world. The RPGs space is also very much plagued with invasive monetization schemes, probably because of how monetarily draining creating an RPG is.

**AI?**

As much as it hurts to say, and as much as it may be taking a knife and stabbing it in the hearts of artisans of the craft of gamemaking, I believe the advent of AI is one crucial step to creating a truly immersive RPG experience.

If we can place certain restriction on AI and give it guidelines, the possibilities are endless. For example, in terms of asset creation. If we train AI on human-crafted limbs and arms assets for example, AI can riff off of these creations, we place restrictions on how these assets can be used. Ai can then generate creatures based off of these assets.
Program a sort of modularity to AI generation, restricting AI to generate new things by fitting things together like lego blocks. Use AI as a RNG kind of deal but with some advanced intelligent capabilities to create things that are not just 

This philosophy can be applied to a variety of game assets.

This isn't some novel concept. Random generation of things is far from a new idea.
Take terrain generation in Minecraft for example.
AI can just take generation of things to a grander scale.